





# Tag archives: sdk





#  [How to create Snap packages of Qtapplications](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

## Introduction

One of the advantages of snap packages is that they are self-contained. When
you install a snap, you know that you don’t need to install additional
dependencies (besides the automatically-installed core snap that provides the
basic operating system layer), and it will simply work on every Linux
distribution that supports snaps.

Here, we show ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/), [TimoJyrinki](/en/blog/authors/timo-jyrinki/)

Nov. 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [Releasing the 4.1.0 Ubuntu SDKIDE](/en/blog/2016/09/07/releasing-410-ubuntu-sdk-ide/)

We are happy to announce the release of the Ubuntu SDK IDE 4.1.0 for the
Trusty, Xenial and Yakkety Ubuntu series.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/09/07/releasing-410-ubuntu-sdk-ide/)

[Benjamin Zeller](/en/blog/authors/zeller-benjamin/), [ZoltánBalogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

Sept. 7, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [New Ubuntu SDK Beta Version](/en/blog/2016/06/28/new-ubuntu-sdk-beta-release3/)

A few days ago we have released the first Beta of the Ubuntu SDK IDE using the
LXD container solution to build and execute applications.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/28/new-ubuntu-sdk-beta-release3/)

[Benjamin Zeller](/en/blog/authors/zeller-benjamin/), [ZoltánBalogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

June 28, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [Calling for testers of the new Ubuntu SDKIDE](/en/blog/2016/06/14/calling-testers-new-ubuntu-sdk-ide-post/)

or: here comes LXD

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/14/calling-testers-new-ubuntu-sdk-ide-post/)

[Benjamin Zeller](/en/blog/authors/zeller-benjamin/), [ZoltánBalogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

June 14, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [Can I haz MainView in a Window?](/en/blog/2016/05/30/can-i-haz-mainview-window-post/)

When using Unity8 these days connecting a Bluetooth mouse to a device enables
windowed mode. Another option is to connect an external monitor via HDMI and
most recently on some devices wireless displays. This raises a few questions
on the API side of things.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/05/30/can-i-haz-mainview-window-post/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

May 30, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [The versioning of the Ubuntu UI Toolkit](/en/blog/2016/05/24/about-versioning-ubuntu-ui-toolkit/)

In the recent days there was lots of discussion about the versioning of the
Ubuntu UI Toolkit. Finally we thought that the topic deserves a dedicated blog
post to clarify the situation and resolve some misunderstandings.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/05/24/about-versioning-ubuntu-ui-toolkit/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

May 24, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [New PageHeader.subtitle with framework 15.04.5 inOTA-11](/en/blog/2016/05/10/new-pageheadersubtitle-framework-15045-ota-11/)

With OTA-11 on the horizon, rc-proposed now has a new framework. If you want
to use the latest UI Toolkit API, that is part of Ubuntu.Components 1.3, you
should bump your framework to 15.04.5 - in QtCreator you can find your
manifest.json.in under Other Files and simply select the new ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/05/10/new-pageheadersubtitle-framework-15045-ota-11/)

[Christian Dywan](/en/blog/authors/kalikiana/)

May 10, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Ride With Us: The Road To UI Toolkit 2.0](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-road-ui-toolkit-20/)

In 2012 we started the Ubuntu UI Toolkit development with QML-only components,
all logic being provided in Javascript. This allowed us to deploy components
quickly, to do fast prototyping, and tweak the behaviors and look-and-feel on
the fly without the need to re-package or rebuild the entire toolkit. With all
its benefits, this approach revealed ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-road-ui-toolkit-20/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

March 23, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [SDK Planning for 16.10](/en/blog/2016/03/16/planning-the-sdk-16-10/)

# **On your mark!**

We have a clear commitment for the upcoming cycle: We will make it faster! One
might ask what exactly we want to make faster and how much faster? From the
point of SDK the most important place for performance improvements are the
applications and all the consumers of the UI Toolkit. So ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/16/planning-the-sdk-16-10/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

March 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [PageHeader tutorial](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

## The new header property

This is a tutorial on how to use the new _PageHeader_ component. So far, we
had one header per application, implemented in the _MainView_, and
configurable for each page using the_ Page.head_ property (which is an
instance of _PageHeadConfiguration_). We deprecated that approach, and added
the _[_Page.header_](https://developer.ubuntu.com/api/apps/qml/sdk-15.04.1/Ubuntu.Components.Page/)_ property, which ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

Feb. 24, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)








