





# Author archives: David Planella





#  [Shaping up universal snaps](/en/blog/2016/07/04/shaping-universal-snaps/)

Following the announcement of [snaps being supported across a range of key
Linux distributions](https://insights.ubuntu.com/2016/06/14/universal-snap-
packages-launch-on-multiple-linux-distros), the development teams working on
snaps and Snapcraft are **making universal snaps one of the main topics of
their next sprint in Heidelberg, Germany, from 18-22 July**.

![](https://assets.ubuntu.com/v1/bb7f0c54-snaps-hero%403x.png)

Snappy sprints are face-to-face events where multiple teams working on snap
technologies, including Ubuntu ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/07/04/shaping-universal-snaps/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

June 27, 2016

Filed under: [cross-distro](/en/blog/tags/cross-distro/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Snappy Ubuntu + Mycroft = Love](/en/blog/2015/09/04/snappy-ubuntu-mycroft-
love/)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/dbd77d6e-c22c-4e55-b399-337654344539-7b843660-3
cb2-407b-83d0-be97c1b92ad8-media/2015/09/04/mycroft_in_love.gif)

**This is a guest post from [Ryan Sipes](https://plus.google.com/+RyanSipes/), CTO of the Mycroft project, explaining how snappy Ubuntu will enable them to deliver a secure and open AI for everyone. **

When we first undertook the Mycroft project, dubbed the “AI For Everyone”, we
knew we would face interesting challenges. We were creating a voice-controlled
platform not ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/09/04/snappy-ubuntu-mycroft-love/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Sept. 4, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)

#  [Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of
cake](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-piece-cake/)

[ ![Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of cake](/static/devportal_up
loaded/0d77755a-a4dd-4b09-846d-c60d49e9677f-uploads/zinnia/fiabee-ubuntu.png)
](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-piece-cake/)

_This is a guest post from Jordi Allue, Senior SW Architect at Tuso
technologies_

In September 2014, Ubuntu invited Tuso Technologies to be one of the first
Ubuntu Phone OS developers with a version of [Fiabee](http://www.fiabee.com)’s
Cloud-Mobile Collaboration, Synchronisation and Sharing App for the new Ubuntu
Phone OS. We jumped at the opportunity ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-
piece-cake/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Feb. 23, 2015

Filed under: [cloud](/en/blog/tags/cloud/) [fiabee](/en/blog/tags/fiabee/)
[webapps](/en/blog/tags/webapps/)

#  [Announcing the Scope Showdown winners](/en/blog/2015/01/16/announcing-
scopes-showdown-winners/)

We're thrilled to announce the results of the **Ubuntu Scope Showdown**: a
contest to develop a [scope](http://developer.ubuntu.com/scopes) in 6 weeks
and win exciting prizes. Fleshing out Ubuntu's innovative take at the content
and services experience, participants had the opportunity to use the new
development tools to create a complete scope from scratch and publish it ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/01/16/announcing-scopes-showdown-winners/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Jan. 16, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/)

#  [ More Scopes Workshops at the Ubuntu Online
Summit!](/en/blog/2014/11/13/more-scopes-workshops-ubuntu-online-summit/)

![](https://swift.canonistack.canonical.com/v1/AUTH_c70ce6d1363e4692b1d4fde91e
aa3b4b/devportal_uploaded/a91841f4-d68a-46bb-88ae-551407c5db52-uploads/zinnia/
image-phone-naturallyneat-medium-700x296.jpg)

This is a week full of exciting events in the Ubuntu world! Following on the
series of Ubuntu Scopes Workshops for the Ubuntu Scopes Showdown, we’re
thrilled to announce more Scopes Workshops sessions as part of the Ubuntu
Online Summit.

## Scopes workshops: learn more and ask your questions

In order to support participants of the ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2014/11/13/more-scopes-workshops-ubuntu-online-
summit/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Nov. 13, 2014

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)





