





# Author archives: Zsombor Egri





#  [Ride With Us: The Road To UI Toolkit 2.0](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-
road-ui-toolkit-20/)

In 2012 we started the Ubuntu UI Toolkit development with QML-only components,
all logic being provided in Javascript. This allowed us to deploy components
quickly, to do fast prototyping, and tweak the behaviors and look-and-feel on
the fly without the need to re-package or rebuild the entire toolkit. With all
its benefits, this approach revealed ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-road-ui-toolkit-20/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

March 23, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [UI Toolkit for OTA9](/en/blog/2016/02/01/ui-toolkit-ota9/)

Hello folks, it’s been a while since the last update came from our busy
toolkit ants. As OTA9 came out recently, it is the time for a refreshment from
our side to show you the latest and greatest cocktail of features our barmen
have prepared. Beside the bugfixes we’ve provided, here is a list of ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/01/ui-toolkit-ota9/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

Feb. 1, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Adaptive page layout made flexible](/en/blog/2015/09/11/adaptive-page-
layout-made-flexible/)

A few weeks ago Tim posted a nice article about [_Adaptive page layouts made
easy_](https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/blog/2015/08/10/adaptive-page-
layouts/). It is my turn now to continue the series, with the hope that you
will all agree on the title.

Ladies and Gentlemen, we have good news and (slightly) bad news to announce
about the AdaptivePageLayout. If the blogging would ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/09/11/adaptive-page-layout-made-flexible/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

Sept. 11, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Creating a theme for your application](/en/blog/2015/03/17/creating-theme-
your-application/)

[ ![Creating a theme for your application](/static/devportal_uploaded/4966443d
-82b5-48e9-839e-fc268197bfa0-uploads/zinnia/appTheming.png)
](/en/blog/2015/03/17/creating-theme-your-application/)

The theming engine is one of the least documented features of Ubuntu UI
Toolkit. While we are preparing to create the third generation theming engine,
which will support sub-theming and runtime palette color customizations, there
are more and more app developers asking about how to create their own theme
for the application itself. There were ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/03/17/creating-theme-your-application/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

March 17, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)





