





# Archives 2015





#  [Add a C++ backend to your QML UI](/en/blog/2015/07/01/add-c-backend-your-
qml-ui/)

Whether you are creating a new app or porting an existing one from another
ecosystem, you may need more backend power than the QML + JavaScript duo
proposed in the [QML app
tutorial](https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/apps/qml/tutorials/building-your-
first-qml-app/).

Let's have a peek at how to to add a C++ backend to your application, using
system libraries or your own, and vastly ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/07/01/add-c-backend-your-qml-ui/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

July 1, 2015

Filed under: [cpp](/en/blog/tags/cpp/) [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-
ubuntu/) [qml](/en/blog/tags/qml/)

#  [Cleaning up scopes settings](/en/blog/2015/06/11/cleaning-scopes-
settings/)

The scopes architecture on Unity 7, which provides the Ubuntu shell and
default UX experience on current desktops, and Unity 8, which powers the phone
and soon the convergent desktop, differ to a large degree when it comes to
visibility of data sources. Future Unity 8 builds will be obsoleting the
legacy privacy flag in ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/11/cleaning-scopes-settings/)

[Pawel Stolowski](/en/blog/authors/stolowski/)

June 11, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[privacy](/en/blog/tags/privacy/) [scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/)

#  [Sprinting for convergence](/en/blog/2015/06/08/sprinting-convergence/)

Convergence is all around. Our deeply loved UI Toolkit, what was primarily
targeting touch environments is converging to where users might have keyboards
and pointer devices. But that is just one point. The innovative track for
Ubuntu is called Snappy and at the same time the SDK is converging to the
desktop. We move to ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/08/sprinting-convergence/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

June 8, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Turning node.js projects into snap packages](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-
nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

Thanks to the tireless work of Oliver Grawert we now have a handy tool called
node-snapper which very easily turns your node.js project into a .snap
package. It will automatically take care of bundling required libraries, other
related node.js projects and will make a multi-arch ("fat") package available,
so it will immediately work ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 2, 2015

Filed under: [node.js](/en/blog/tags/node.js/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)

#  [ 5 days to go - show your support for Ubuntu take the Vision Mobile survey
today](/en/blog/2015/06/01/5-days-go-show-your-support-ubuntu-take-vision-
mobile-survey-today/)

Have you taken Vision Mobile’s developer survey? The survey is covering your
development in Mobile, Desktop, Cloud, and IoT this year, there is something
all devs can contribute towards and help shape the findings for this survey.

Participating is easy - take the 10-minute Developer Skill Census survey and
enter a draw to win prizes such ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/01/5-days-go-show-your-support-ubuntu-
take-vision-mobile-survey-today/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

June 1, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[survey](/en/blog/tags/survey/)

#  [Keeping track of evolving QML components](/en/blog/2015/05/26/keeping-
track-evolving-qml-components/)

We all love QML because it allows for fast prototyping, and not only that,
it's a very efficient tool for production applications. The complexity of C
and C++ is hidden behind neat and simple API. Many if not most app developers
these days take advantage of that without even having to know the
implementation details ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/05/26/keeping-track-evolving-qml-components/)

[Christian Dywan](/en/blog/authors/kalikiana/)

May 26, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [ Get involved in Vision Mobile's biggest dev survey - everything from
mobile to IoT development](/en/blog/2015/05/05/get-involved-vision-mobiles-
biggest-dev-survey-everything-mobile-iot-development/)

Are you involved in Ubuntu phone, desktop, cloud or IoT development? Voice
your opinion on what factors contribute to your choice of developing on Ubuntu
by getting involved in the biggest developer survey yet.

Vision Mobile have launched their 9th edition developer economics survey
today, covering developer sentiment across platforms, revenues, apps, tools,
APIs, segments ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/05/05/get-involved-vision-mobiles-biggest-
dev-survey-everything-mobile-iot-development/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc32/)

May 5, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[survey](/en/blog/tags/survey/)

#  [Internationalizing your QML app](/en/blog/2015/04/30/internationalizing-
your-qml-app/)

[ ![Internationalizing your QML app](/static/devportal_uploaded/ed3e52cf-71fb-
4402-aa62-c43f8045aad0-uploads/zinnia/screenshot20150430_095104449.png)
](/en/blog/2015/04/30/internationalizing-your-qml-app/)

As a developer, you probably want to see your apps in many hands. One way to
make it happen is to enable your application for translation.

With minimal effort, you can mark your application strings for translation,
expose them to community translators and integrate these translations into
your package. The translations building process is ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/30/internationalizing-your-qml-app/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc32/)

April 30, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[qml](/en/blog/tags/qml/)

#  [A magnifying glass in QML](/en/blog/2015/04/28/magnifying-glass-qml/)

To create sharp visual components, we need to make sure our renderings look
good at the pixel level. This is a common task and the terms _precision_ and
_pixel-perfectness_ have become ubiquitous in discussions among programmers
and designers at Canonical. In the last years, the industry started to
increase the pixel density of screens, _again_ (remember the ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/28/magnifying-glass-qml/)

[Loïc Molinari](/en/blog/authors/loic.molinari/)

April 28, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Retrospective and roadmap of the UI
Toolkit](/en/blog/2015/04/15/retrospective-and-roadmap-ui-toolkit/)

## **14.04 - 1.0 release**

The 1.0 release of the UITK was built mostly for demonstrative purposes, but
works well to a certain extent, it is the LTS release after all. Available
from the Trusty archive ([0.1.46+14.04.20140408.1-0ubuntu1](http://packages.ub
untu.com/source/trusty/ubuntu-ui-toolkit)) and from the SDK PPA
([0.1.46+14.10.20140520-0ubuntu1 ...](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-sdk-
team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa/+sourcepub/4190958/+listing-archive-extra)

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/15/retrospective-and-roadmap-ui-toolkit/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

April 15, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)








