





# Author archives: Daniel Holbach





#  [Learning to snap with codelabs](/en/blog/2016/09/27/learning-to-snap-with-
codelabs/)

**The background**

I always felt that learning something new, especially new concepts and
workflows usually works best if you see it first-hand and get to do things
yourself. If you experience directly how your actions influence the system
you're working with, the new connections in your brain form much more quickly.
[Didier](http://blog.didrocks.fr/) and I talked ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/09/27/learning-to-snap-with-codelabs/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

Sept. 27, 2016

Filed under: [codelabs](/en/blog/tags/codelabs/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Week 3 of the Snappy Playpen](/en/blog/2016/06/17/week-3-snappy-playpen/)

Next week we're going into the third week of the Snappy Playpen. An initiative
to snap together, learn from each other, document best practices and get
together as a team.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/17/week-3-snappy-playpen/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 17, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[playpen](/en/blog/tags/playpen/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)
[snaps](/en/blog/tags/snaps/)

#  [Second Snappy Playpen Event next week](/en/blog/2016/06/10/second-snappy-
playpen-event-next-week/)

In Snappy Playpen we want to bring people together who want to create snaps,
document best practices, learn from each other and have fun.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/10/second-snappy-playpen-event-next-week/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 10, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Announcing the Snappy Playpen](/en/blog/2016/06/03/announcing-snappy-
playpen/)

With snaps and the store, it finally became easy again to publish software in
Ubuntu. Snappy Playpen is a project in which we want to collaboratively snap
software, learn from each other and document best-practices.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/03/announcing-snappy-playpen/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 3, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)

#  [Announcing UbuContest 2015](/en/blog/2015/07/23/announcing-the-
ubucontest-2015/)

Have you read the news already? Canonical, the Ubucon Germany 2015 team, and
the UbuContest 2015 team, are happy to announce the first UbuContest!
Contestants from all over the world have until September 18, 2015 to build and
publish their apps and scopes using the Ubuntu SDK and Ubuntu platform. The
competion has already started ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/07/23/announcing-the-ubucontest-2015/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

July 23, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)

#  [Turning node.js projects into snap packages](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-
nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

Thanks to the tireless work of Oliver Grawert we now have a handy tool called
node-snapper which very easily turns your node.js project into a .snap
package. It will automatically take care of bundling required libraries, other
related node.js projects and will make a multi-arch ("fat") package available,
so it will immediately work ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 2, 2015

Filed under: [node.js](/en/blog/tags/node.js/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)

#  [New developer guide: Online Accounts](/en/blog/2014/11/11/new-developer-
guide-online-accounts/)

More content coming up for app and scope developers targeting Ubuntu on
devices: this time around Online Accounts!

Learn the concepts on how to write account providers for online services using
the Ubuntu Online Accounts API (UOA), and let the API take care of all the
complexity and security for you, so that you can ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2014/11/11/new-developer-guide-online-accounts/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

Nov. 11, 2014

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)

#  [How to customize and brand your scope](/en/blog/2014/10/25/scopes-
customization-branding/)

Scopes come with a very flexible customization system. From picking the text
color to rearranging how results are laid out, a scope can easily look like a
generic RSS reader, a music library or even a store front.

In this new article, you will learn how to make your scope shine by
customizing its results ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2014/10/25/scopes-customization-branding/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

Oct. 25, 2014

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)





