





#  [Learning to snap with codelabs](/en/blog/2016/09/27/learning-to-snap-with-
codelabs/)

**The background**

I always felt that learning something new, especially new concepts and
workflows usually works best if you see it first-hand and get to do things
yourself. If you experience directly how your actions influence the system
you're working with, the new connections in your brain form much more quickly.
[Didier](http://blog.didrocks.fr/) and I talked a while about how to introduce
the processes and ideas behind snapd and snapcraft to a new audience,
particularly at a workshop or a meet-up and we found we were of the same
opinion.

Didier put quite a bit of work into solving the infrastructure question. We
re-used the work which was put into Codelabs already, so adding a new codelab
merely became a question of creating a Google Doc and adding it using a
management command. It works nicely, the UI is simple and easy to understand
and lets you focus on the content at hand. It was a lot of fun to work on the
content and refine the individual steps in a self-teaching workshop style.
Thanks a lot everyone for the reviews!

**It's now available for everyone**

After some discussion it became clear that a very fitting way for the codelabs
to go out would be to ship them as a snap themselves. It's beautifully simple
to get started:

$ sudo snap install snap-codelabs

All you need to do afterwards is point your browser to
`http://localhost:8123/` - that's all. You will be greeted with something like
this:

![](http://i.imgur.com/81LpGC6.png)

From thereon you can quickly start your snap adventure and get up and running
in no time. It's a step-by-step workshop and you always know how much more
time you need to complete it.

Expect more codelabs to be added soon. If you have feedback, please let us
know [here](https://github.com/ubuntu/codelabs).

Have fun and when you're done with your first codelab, let us know in the
comments!

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

Sept. 27, 2016

Filed under: [codelabs](/en/blog/tags/codelabs/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)





## Comments

No comments yet.

## Add your comment

Name:

Email address:

URL:

Comment:

If you enter anything in this field your comment will be treated as spam:





