





# Category archives: Article





#  [Sprinting for convergence](/en/blog/2015/06/08/sprinting-convergence/)

Convergence is all around. Our deeply loved UI Toolkit, what was primarily
targeting touch environments is converging to where users might have keyboards
and pointer devices. But that is just one point. The innovative track for
Ubuntu is called Snappy and at the same time the SDK is converging to the
desktop. We move to ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/08/sprinting-convergence/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

June 8, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Turning node.js projects into snap packages](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-
nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

Thanks to the tireless work of Oliver Grawert we now have a handy tool called
node-snapper which very easily turns your node.js project into a .snap
package. It will automatically take care of bundling required libraries, other
related node.js projects and will make a multi-arch ("fat") package available,
so it will immediately work ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/02/turning-nodejs-projects-snap-packages/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 2, 2015

Filed under: [node.js](/en/blog/tags/node.js/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)

#  [Keeping track of evolving QML components](/en/blog/2015/05/26/keeping-
track-evolving-qml-components/)

We all love QML because it allows for fast prototyping, and not only that,
it's a very efficient tool for production applications. The complexity of C
and C++ is hidden behind neat and simple API. Many if not most app developers
these days take advantage of that without even having to know the
implementation details ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/05/26/keeping-track-evolving-qml-components/)

[Christian Dywan](/en/blog/authors/kalikiana/)

May 26, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [ Get involved in Vision Mobile's biggest dev survey - everything from
mobile to IoT development](/en/blog/2015/05/05/get-involved-vision-mobiles-
biggest-dev-survey-everything-mobile-iot-development/)

Are you involved in Ubuntu phone, desktop, cloud or IoT development? Voice
your opinion on what factors contribute to your choice of developing on Ubuntu
by getting involved in the biggest developer survey yet.

Vision Mobile have launched their 9th edition developer economics survey
today, covering developer sentiment across platforms, revenues, apps, tools,
APIs, segments ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/05/05/get-involved-vision-mobiles-biggest-
dev-survey-everything-mobile-iot-development/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc32/)

May 5, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[survey](/en/blog/tags/survey/)

#  [“尖牙利齿”的Ubuntu 15.10 - Wily Werewolf](/en/blog/2015/05/05/jianyalichi-
ubuntu-1510-wily-werewolf/)

[ ![“尖牙利齿”的Ubuntu 15.10 - Wily Werewolf](/static/devportal_uploaded/e936dd25-f
715-4946-bd98-7841f46d2772-uploads/zinnia/Ubuntu_Wily_Werewolf.jpeg)
](/en/blog/2015/05/05/jianyalichi-ubuntu-1510-wily-werewolf/)

Mark Shuttleworth昨晚揭晓了Ubuntu 15.10 的版本代号 Wily Werewolf。Wily在英文中一般用于描述易于适应环境锐敏足
智的角色人物，而Werewolf则是传说中的一种神秘物种，小说中常常以人形出现但会在满月之日变成狼性的狼人

Ubuntu 15.10 将会在今年10月份发布，而它的代码名也是至今为止Ubuntu版本名中第二个被重复的字母
（另外一组曾被重复使用的字母为H，相关版本名分别为Hardy Heron和Hoary Hedgehog）

为了昨晚有错过直播的筒子们另外再献上 ， Mark现场的几段精彩keynote,致即将到来的Pocket PC！

“We [the Linux desktop] were always five, ten years behind. Always copying the
other guy. Here, for the first time, we have this vision at the same time,” he
said.

“It ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/05/05/jianyalichi-ubuntu-1510-wily-werewolf/)

[April Wang](/en/blog/authors/aprilswang/)

May 5, 2015

Filed under: [Wily Werewolf](/en/blog/tags/Wily%20Werewolf/) [ubuntu
15.10](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu%2015.10/)
[手机开发](/en/blog/tags/%E6%89%8B%E6%9C%BA%E5%BC%80%E5%8F%91/)

#  [A magnifying glass in QML](/en/blog/2015/04/28/magnifying-glass-qml/)

To create sharp visual components, we need to make sure our renderings look
good at the pixel level. This is a common task and the terms _precision_ and
_pixel-perfectness_ have become ubiquitous in discussions among programmers
and designers at Canonical. In the last years, the industry started to
increase the pixel density of screens, _again_ (remember the ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/28/magnifying-glass-qml/)

[Loïc Molinari](/en/blog/authors/loic.molinari/)

April 28, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Retrospective and roadmap of the UI
Toolkit](/en/blog/2015/04/15/retrospective-and-roadmap-ui-toolkit/)

## **14.04 - 1.0 release**

The 1.0 release of the UITK was built mostly for demonstrative purposes, but
works well to a certain extent, it is the LTS release after all. Available
from the Trusty archive ([0.1.46+14.04.20140408.1-0ubuntu1](http://packages.ub
untu.com/source/trusty/ubuntu-ui-toolkit)) and from the SDK PPA
([0.1.46+14.10.20140520-0ubuntu1 ...](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-sdk-
team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa/+sourcepub/4190958/+listing-archive-extra)

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/15/retrospective-and-roadmap-ui-toolkit/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

April 15, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Inner workings of the SDK](/en/blog/2015/04/13/inner-workings-sdk/)

[ ![Inner workings of the SDK](/static/devportal_uploaded/fe934c07-8efa-41c2-b
68e-ea5069aacee5-uploads/zinnia/Bildschirmfoto_vom_2015-04-13_112105.png)
](/en/blog/2015/04/13/inner-workings-sdk/)

From time to time app developers ask how to manually build click packages from
their QMake or CMake projects. To understand the answer to that question,
knowing about how the SDK does things internally and the tools it uses helps a
lot.

First we have to know about the _click_ command. It is one of ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/04/13/inner-workings-sdk/)

[Benjamin Zeller](/en/blog/authors/zeller-benjamin/)

April 13, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Return of the Ubuntu UI Toolkit](/en/blog/2015/03/30/ubuntu-
components-1-2-release/)

Next month will be the release of Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) for desktop, and
this version of Ubuntu will soon become the version that will be installed on
Ubuntu phones as well. With the release of 15.04, we also release a new
version of our UI toolkit: _Ubuntu.Components 1.2_. Below are ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/03/30/ubuntu-components-1-2-release/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

March 30, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Kits But Were Afraid to
Ask](/en/blog/2015/03/18/everything-you-always-wanted-know-about-kits-were-
afraid-ask/)

So if you are new to QtCreator the first thing that freaks you out will be the
concept of Kits. Yes it does look complicated, big and you might want to ask
why do I need this.

## ![](/static/devportal_uploaded/e4fcc5b7-5485-4a92-b914-a5cbcd0f6575-2013f70
b-3096-4f88-b684-cb883dd1267e-media/2015/03/18/options.jpg)

## Right, let’s take few steps back and look at the bigger picture.

Most programmers start their hobby or ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/03/18/everything-you-always-wanted-know-
about-kits-were-afraid-ask/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

March 18, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)








