





#  [Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of
cake](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-piece-cake/)

![Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of cake](/static/devportal_uplo
aded/0d77755a-a4dd-4b09-846d-c60d49e9677f-uploads/zinnia/fiabee-ubuntu.png)

_This is a guest post from Jordi Allue, Senior SW Architect at Tuso
technologies_

In September 2014, Ubuntu invited Tuso Technologies to be one of the first
Ubuntu Phone OS developers with a version of [Fiabee](http://www.fiabee.com)’s
Cloud-Mobile Collaboration, Synchronisation and Sharing App for the new Ubuntu
Phone OS. We jumped at the opportunity because it was in line with Tuso
Technologies’ cross-platform compatibility strategy and found it to be an
interesting challenge. The process was far simpler and faster than we
originally expected, and the results exceeded our expectations.

[Fiabee](http://www.fiabee.com) is a carrier-grade, enterprise caliber, cloud-
mobile Collaboration, Synchronization and Sharing Software-as-a-Service
(SaaS). With [Fiabee](http://www.fiabee.com), Telecom Operators, Internet
Service Providers and other Managed Service Providers generate new revenues
and reduce churn by taking market share away from large OTT App (Over The Top
Application) providers.

Ubuntu Phone Apps are created natively or in HTML5 within a WebApp. Fiabee’s
existing HTML5 app, which includes CSS3 and Javascript, was the ideal match
for Ubuntu Phone.

We started the process by installing Ubuntu’s Software Development Kit (SDK)
and making ourselves familiar with it. The installation was straight forward
with a simple "apt-get install ubuntu-sdk" instruction. Although we had no
prior experience with Ubuntu’s Integration Development Environment (IDE),
based on Qt Creator, the tutorials available on Ubuntu’s website helped us
create our first HTML5 trial app. Next we tested the app directly on an Ubuntu
Phone, getting familiar with Ubuntu’s Operating System (OS) and IDE was the
most challenging of the tasks. That said, it only took us a few days to
prepare the infrastructure to develop our own app. For those who don’t have an
Ubuntu Phone, Ubuntu’s SDK provides a mobile device emulator.

From there on, it was easy to adapt Fiabee’s web application to Ubuntu’s
environment. With the help of the SDK instructions and manuals, we integrated
the Web app into the development project, ran it on the device and created the
deployment package. After configuration, we adapted the visual appearance and
operation to Ubuntu’s standards.

We were amazed to find that the functions of Fiabee’s App which are often
difficult to adapt were almost automatic with Ubuntu Phone, such as accessing
the phone’s file system, interacting with third party Apps or opening
documents downloaded from the cloud. This demonstrates that Ubuntu OS is truly
“open”. During the last steps of creating the package and uploading it to the
Ubuntu App Directory, we had a minor problem with the definition of the App’s
security policies but that was quickly resolved with the help of Ubuntu’s App
Directory Tech Support team.

From our perspective, bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of cake. It
was a quicker and an easier experience than we’ve had with other platforms,
despite it being new and notably different from the others with its App
interaction menu. We were able to carry over all the functionalities of the
Fiabee App without losing any, as was the case with other platforms, and
without having to invest re-development time. It was as simple as tweeking
Fiabee’s existing web app. With Fiabee’s App for Ubuntu Phones, we continue to
deliver a good user experience to Fiabee users with a further extended range
of mobile devices with which to access our service.

_About Tuso technologies SL. Founded in late 2008, with offices in Barcelona,
Spain, and Palo Alto, USA, Tuso Technologies develops carrier-grade,
enterprise-caliber, cloud-mobile Value-Added-Services (VAS), including Fiabee,
Locategy & Open API, selected by leading Mobile Network Operators, ISV and
corporations such as Telefonica (Movistar), France Telecom (Orange) , Ono
(Vodafone), R Cable, Panda Security, Applus+ among others._

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Feb. 23, 2015

Filed under: [cloud](/en/blog/tags/cloud/) [fiabee](/en/blog/tags/fiabee/)
[webapps](/en/blog/tags/webapps/)





## Comments

No comments yet.

## Add your comment

Name:

Email address:

URL:

Comment:

If you enter anything in this field your comment will be treated as spam:





