





# Tag archives: webapps





#  [How to host your static site with HTTPS on GitHub Pages and
CloudFlare](/en/blog/2016/02/17/how-host-your-static-site-https-github-pages-
and-cloudflare/)

[ ![How to host your static site with HTTPS on GitHub Pages and CloudFlare](/s
tatic/devportal_uploaded/b696cd2b-6ee6-487d-8800-028b3d304d8a-uploads/zinnia/g
ithub-ssl.png) ](/en/blog/2016/02/17/how-host-your-static-site-https-github-
pages-and-cloudflare/)

There has been a [growing](https://www.chapterthree.com/blog/why-your-site-
should-be-using-https) [movement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBhZ6S0PFCY)
to get all websites to use SSL connections where possible. Nowadays, Google
even [uses it as a
criterion](https://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.co.uk/2014/08/https-as-
ranking-signal.html) for ranking websites.

I've written before about [how to host an HTTPS website for free with StartSSL
and OpenShift](https://robinwinslow.uk/2014/08/26/host-your-site-with-https-
for-free/). However, StartSSL is very hard to use and provides very basic
certificates ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/17/how-host-your-static-site-https-github-
pages-and-cloudflare/)

[Robin Winslow](/en/blog/authors/nottrobin/)

Feb. 17, 2016

Filed under: [cloudflare](/en/blog/tags/cloudflare/)
[github](/en/blog/tags/github/) [hosting](/en/blog/tags/hosting/)
[https](/en/blog/tags/https/) [webapps](/en/blog/tags/webapps/)

#  [Creating a minimal Python application server for
experimenting](/en/blog/2016/02/17/minimal-python-wsgi-application-server/)

[ ![Creating a minimal Python application server for experimenting](/static/de
vportal_uploaded/1fa616fb-1c41-480a-a504-4412353b1af3-uploads/zinnia/wsgi-
snake.png) ](/en/blog/2016/02/17/minimal-python-wsgi-application-server/)

I often find myself wanting to play around with a tiny Python web application
with native Python without installing any extra modules - the Python
developer's equivalent of creating an `index.html` and opening it in the
browser [just to play around with
markup](http://www.yourhtmlsource.com/myfirstsite/myfirstpage.html).

For example, today I found myself wanting to inspect how the [Google
...](https://developers.google.com/api-client-library/python/)

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/17/minimal-python-wsgi-application-
server/)

[Robin Winslow](/en/blog/authors/nottrobin/)

Feb. 17, 2016

Filed under: [django](/en/blog/tags/django/) [python](/en/blog/tags/python/)
[webapps](/en/blog/tags/webapps/)

#  [Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of
cake](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-piece-cake/)

[ ![Bringing Fiabee to Ubuntu Phones was a piece of cake](/static/devportal_up
loaded/0d77755a-a4dd-4b09-846d-c60d49e9677f-uploads/zinnia/fiabee-ubuntu.png)
](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-piece-cake/)

_This is a guest post from Jordi Allue, Senior SW Architect at Tuso
technologies_

In September 2014, Ubuntu invited Tuso Technologies to be one of the first
Ubuntu Phone OS developers with a version of [Fiabee](http://www.fiabee.com)â€™s
Cloud-Mobile Collaboration, Synchronisation and Sharing App for the new Ubuntu
Phone OS. We jumped at the opportunity ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/02/23/bringing-fiabee-ubuntu-phones-was-
piece-cake/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Feb. 23, 2015

Filed under: [cloud](/en/blog/tags/cloud/) [fiabee](/en/blog/tags/fiabee/)
[webapps](/en/blog/tags/webapps/)





