





# Tag archives: snapcraft





#  [Ubuntu SDK meets snapcraft](/en/blog/2016/11/16/ubuntu-sdk-ide-meets-
snapcraft/)

Everyone who has followed Ubuntu lately for sure stumbled across the snappy
technology, which does not only bring the new cross-distro packaging format
“snap” but also a sandboxing technology for apps, as well as transactional
updates that can be rolled back in case of an update going wrong and a new way
of installing and ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/11/16/ubuntu-sdk-ide-meets-snapcraft/)

[Benjamin Zeller](/en/blog/authors/zeller-benjamin/)

Nov. 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[qtcreator](/en/blog/tags/qtcreator/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/) [snaps](/en/blog/tags/snaps/) [ubuntu-
sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/) [ubuntu-sdk-ide](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk-
ide/)

#  [How to create Snap packages of Qt
applications](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

## Introduction

One of the advantages of snap packages is that they are self-contained. When
you install a snap, you know that you don’t need to install additional
dependencies (besides the automatically-installed core snap that provides the
basic operating system layer), and it will simply work on every Linux
distribution that supports snaps.

Here, we show ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/), [Timo
Jyrinki](/en/blog/authors/timo-jyrinki/)

Nov. 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [Learning to snap with codelabs](/en/blog/2016/09/27/learning-to-snap-with-
codelabs/)

**The background**

I always felt that learning something new, especially new concepts and
workflows usually works best if you see it first-hand and get to do things
yourself. If you experience directly how your actions influence the system
you're working with, the new connections in your brain form much more quickly.
[Didier](http://blog.didrocks.fr/) and I talked ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/09/27/learning-to-snap-with-codelabs/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

Sept. 27, 2016

Filed under: [codelabs](/en/blog/tags/codelabs/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Snapd 2.11/Snapcraft 2.13: downgrade installed snaps, release to users
from the command line](/en/blog/2016/08/04/snapd-211-snapcraft213/)

The latest version of snapd, the service powering snaps, has just landed in
Ubuntu 16.04, here are some of the highlights of this release.

## New commands: buy, find private, disable, revert

A lot of new commands are available, allowing you, for example, to downgrade,
disable and buy snaps:

  * When logged into a store, `snap ...`

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/08/04/snapd-211-snapcraft213/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

Aug. 4, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Announcing new snap desktop launchers](/en/blog/2016/07/06/announcing-new-
snap-desktop-launchers/)

## Background

Integrating desktop applications with snaps has been a little bit challenging
in terms of getting them looking and behaving as part of the system. This
means following general desktop theming, having global application menu
integration, getting the icon caches, getting configuration keys and such.
Also, the technologies and toolkits like GTK, Qt, demand a little bit of
expertise on ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/07/06/announcing-new-snap-desktop-launchers/)

[Didier Roche](/en/blog/authors/didrocks/)

July 6, 2016

Filed under: [Snappy](/en/blog/tags/Snappy/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Shaping up universal snaps](/en/blog/2016/07/04/shaping-universal-snaps/)

Following the announcement of [snaps being supported across a range of key
Linux distributions](https://insights.ubuntu.com/2016/06/14/universal-snap-
packages-launch-on-multiple-linux-distros), the development teams working on
snaps and Snapcraft are **making universal snaps one of the main topics of
their next sprint in Heidelberg, Germany, from 18-22 July**.

![](https://assets.ubuntu.com/v1/bb7f0c54-snaps-hero%403x.png)

Snappy sprints are face-to-face events where multiple teams working on snap
technologies, including Ubuntu ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/07/04/shaping-universal-snaps/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

June 27, 2016

Filed under: [cross-distro](/en/blog/tags/cross-distro/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Snapcraft 2.12: an ecosystem of parts, qmake and
gulp](/en/blog/2016/06/29/snapcraft-212/)

Snapcraft 2.12 is here and is making its way to your 16.04 machines today.

This release takes Snapcraft to a whole new level. For example, instead of
defining your own project parts, you can now use and share them from a common,
open, repository. This feature was already available in previous versions, but
...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/29/snapcraft-212/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

June 29, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Week 3 of the Snappy Playpen](/en/blog/2016/06/17/week-3-snappy-playpen/)

Next week we're going into the third week of the Snappy Playpen. An initiative
to snap together, learn from each other, document best practices and get
together as a team.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/17/week-3-snappy-playpen/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 17, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[playpen](/en/blog/tags/playpen/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)
[snaps](/en/blog/tags/snaps/)

#  [Snapcraft 2.10: zip files, devmode and
macaroons](/en/blog/2016/06/13/Snapcraft-210-zip-files-devmode-and-macaroons/)

A new version of Snapcraft, the tool to create snaps to distribute your
software, was recently released: Snapcraft 2.10 is packed with new features
and improvements, including:

  * The ‘`snapcraft init`’ command now produces a template to bootstrap developers to create their snaps and uses [‘devmode’ ](http://askubuntu.com/q/783945/9781)as the default confinement mode
  * Added support for ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/13/Snapcraft-210-zip-files-devmode-and-
macaroons/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

June 13, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)

#  [Second Snappy Playpen Event next week](/en/blog/2016/06/10/second-snappy-
playpen-event-next-week/)

In Snappy Playpen we want to bring people together who want to create snaps,
document best practices, learn from each other and have fun.

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/06/10/second-snappy-playpen-event-next-week/)

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

June 10, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/) [snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/)








