





#  [ Year End Core Apps Hack Days](/en/blog/2014/12/05/year-end-core-apps-hack-days/)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/67a7f1ad-96ed-4546-878d-de233dbcd421-571b5c97-39ee-4746-8d0f-ff166fe5f80a-media/2014/12/19/coreapps2.jpg)

As we come to the end of 2014, looking forward to new devices running Ubuntu
in our immediate future, it’s time for one last set of Hack Days of the year.

Next week, from **Monday 8th December till Friday 12th** we’re going to be
having another set of **Core Apps Hack Days**. We’ve had a few of these this
year which have been a great way to focus attention on specific applications
and their dependent components in the platform. They’re also a nice gateway
for getting new people into the Core Apps project and Ubuntu development in
general.

The Core Apps are community maintained Free Software applications which were
created for Ubuntu devices, but also work on the Ubuntu desktop. We welcome
new developers, testers, autopilot writers, artists and translators to get
involved in these exciting projects.

## The schedule

As with previous hack days we’re going to focus on specific apps on each day,
which we run from **9:00 UTC until 21:00 UTC**. In summary our schedule looks
like this:-

Monday 8th – Calculator, Terminal & Clock

Tuesday 9th – File Manager & Calendar

Wednesday 10th – Music & Document Viewer – QA Day Workshop: writing tests for
the core apps (18:00UTC)

Thursday 11th – Shorts & Reminders

Friday 12th – Weather & Dekko (email)

## A QA treat

Creating core apps involves close coordination between developers and
designers to provide the right set of features, high usability and appealing
visuals. All these would be nothing without a suite of automated tests that
are run to ensure the features are rock-solid and that no regressions are
introduced with new development.

All core apps include Autopilot and QML tests that we are constantly expanding
to increase test coverage. Writing tests for core apps is a nice way to get
started contributing. All you’ll need is some Python knowledge for Autopilot
tests or QML for QML tests. Our quality man, Nicholas Skaggs will be running a
live video workshop on **Wednesday Dec 10th, at 18:00UTC**, as an on-ramp to
learn how to create tests.

## Join the fest

The Hack Days will be happening live at the #ubuntu-app-devel IRC channel on
Freenode

The QA Workshop will be happening also live on Ubuntu On Air. You can watch
the video and ask your questions on the same IRC channel.

We’ll blog more details about the apps each day next week with links to
specific bugs, tasks and goals, so stay tuned!

As always we greatly appreciate all contributions to the Core Apps project
during the Hack Days, but welcome community efforts all year round, so if this
week doesn’t work for you, feel free to drop by #ubuntu-app-devel on Freenode
any time and speak to me, popey.

[Alan Pope ㋛](/en/blog/authors/popey/)

Dec. 5, 2014

Filed under: [apps](/en/blog/tags/apps/) [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)





## Comments

Comments are closed.


div.inner-wrapper





