





#  [Snappy Ubuntu + Mycroft = Love](/en/blog/2015/09/04/snappy-ubuntu-mycroft-love/)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/dbd77d6e-c22c-4e55-b399-337654344539-7b843660-3cb2-407b-83d0-be97c1b92ad8-media/2015/09/04/mycroft_in_love.gif)

**This is a guest post from [Ryan Sipes](https://plus.google.com/+RyanSipes/), CTO of the Mycroft project, explaining how snappy Ubuntu will enable them to deliver a secure and open AI for everyone. **

When we first undertook the Mycroft project, dubbed the “AI For Everyone”, we
knew we would face interesting challenges. We were creating a voice-controlled
platform not only for assisting you in your daily life with weather, news
updates, calendar reminders, and answers to your questions - but also a hub
which would allow you to control your Internet of Things, specifically in the
form of home automation. Managing all these devices through a seamless user
experience requires a strong backbone for developers, and this is where snappy
Ubuntu Core works wonders.

Since choosing to base our open source, open hardware product called Mycroft
on snappy Ubuntu Core, we have found the platform to be amazing. Being able to
build and deliver apps easily through Snappy packages, makes for a quick and
painless packaging experience with only a short bit required to get up to
speed and start creating your own. We’ve taken advantage of this and are
planning to use Snappy packages as the main delivery method of apps on our
platform. Want to install the Spotify app on Mycroft? Just install the Snappy
package, which you’ll be able to do with a just a click.

But Snappy Core’s usefulness goes beyond creating packages, the ability to do
transactional updates of apps makes testing and stability easier. We’ve found
that the ability to rollback an update to be critical in ensuring that we are
our platform is working when it needs to, but it has also made it possible to
test for bugs on versions that we are unsure about - and rollback when there
is serious breakage. As we continue to learn more, we are every impressed with
this feature of Snappy.

We’re going to be leveraging snappy Ubuntu Core and “Snaps” to deliver
applications to Mycroft, and when talking about a platform that sits in your
home and has the ability to install third party software an important
conversation about privacy in necessary. We are doing our best to ensure that
user’s critical data and interactions with Mycroft are kept private, and
Snappy makes our job easier. Having a great deal of control over security
policies of apps and being able to make applications run in a sandbox, allows
us to take measure to ensure the core system isn’t compromised. In a world
where you are interacting with lots of IoT devices every day, security is
paramount, and Snappy Core Ubuntu doesn’t let you down.

In case you couldn’t tell from the paragraphs above, the Mycroft team is
ecstatic to be using such an awesome technology on which to build our open
source artificial intelligence and home automation platform. But one thing I
didn’t talk about was the awesome community surrounding Ubuntu and the
passionate people working for Canonical that have poured their time into this
amazing project and that, above all, is the best reason for using Snappy Core.

If you are interested in learning more about Mycroft, [_please check out ourKickstarter_](http://bit.ly/mycroftai) and consider backing the project. We’ve
only got a few days left, but we promise that we will continue to keep
everyone posted about our experiences as we continue to use Snappy Core while
we work on the #AIForEveryone.

[_I want AI for everyone too! > _](http://bit.ly/mycroftai)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Sept. 4, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)





## Comments

No comments yet.

## Add your comment

Name:

Email address:

URL:

Comment:

If you enter anything in this field your comment will be treated as spam:





