





#  [Announcing UbuContest 2015](/en/blog/2015/07/23/announcing-the-ubucontest-2015/)

Have you read the news already? Canonical, the Ubucon Germany 2015 team, and
the UbuContest 2015 team, are happy to announce the first UbuContest!
Contestants from all over the world have until September 18, 2015 to build and
publish their apps and scopes using the Ubuntu SDK and Ubuntu platform. The
competion has already started, so register your competition entry today! You
donâ€™t have to create a new project, submit what you have and improve it over
the next two months.

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/fb31b50c-4c07-488c-af0e-c3a9142681b3-44e7f157-d429-4b7a-bcc7-828510cf3c1f-media/2015/07/23/appswall.png)

But we know it's not all about shiny new apps and scopes! A great platform
also needs content, great design, testing, documentation, bug management,
developer support, interesting blog posts, technology demonstrations and all
of the other incredible things our community does every day. So we give you,
our community members, the opportunity to nominate other community members for
prizes!

We are proud to present five dedicated categories:

  1. **Best Team Entry**: A team of up to three developers may register up to two apps/scopes they are developing. The jury will assign points in categories including "Creativity", "Functionality", "Design", "Technical Level" and "Convergence". The top three entries with the most points win.

  2. **Best Individual Entry**: A lone developer may register up to two apps/scopes he or she is developing. The rest of the rules are identical to the "Best Team Entry" category.

  3. **Outstanding Technical Contribution**: Members of the general public may nominate candidates who, in their opinion, have done something "exceptional" on a technical level. The nominated candidate with the most jury votes wins.

  4. **Outstanding Non-Technical Contribution**: Members of the general public may nominate candidates who, in their opinion, have done something exceptional, but non-technical, to bring the Ubuntu platform forward. So, for example, you can nominate a friend who has reported and commented on all those phone-related bugs on Launchpad. Or nominate a member of your local community who did translations for Core Apps. Or nominate someone who has contributed documentation, written awesome blog articles, etc. The nominated candidate with the most jury votes wins.

  5. **Convergence Hero**: The "Best Team Entry" or "Best Individual Entry" contribution with the highest number of "Convergence" points wins. The winner in this category will probably surprise us in ways we have yet to imagine.

Our community judging panel members Laura Cowen, Carla Sella, Simos
Xenitellis, Sujeevan Vijayakumaran and Michael Zanetti will select the winners
in each category. Successful winners will be awarded items from a huge pile of
prizes, including travel subsidies for the first-placed winners to attend
Ubucon Germany 2015 in Berlin, four Ubuntu Phones sponsored by bq and Meizu,
t-shirts, and bundles of items from the official Ubuntu Shop.

We wish all the contestants good luck!

Go to[ _ubucontest.eu_](http://ubucon.de/2015/contest/overview) or
[_ubucon.de/2015/contest_](http://ubucon.de/2015/contest) for more
information, including how to register and nominate folks. You can also follow
us on Twitter[ _@ubucontest_](https://twitter.com/ubucontest), or contact us
via e-mail at contest@ubucon.de.

[Daniel Holbach](/en/blog/authors/dholbach/)

July 23, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)





## Comments

No comments yet.

## Add your comment

Name:

Email address:

URL:

Comment:

If you enter anything in this field your comment will be treated as spam:





