





# Author archives: Tim Peeters





#  [How to create Snap packages of Qt
applications](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

## Introduction

One of the advantages of snap packages is that they are self-contained. When
you install a snap, you know that you donâ€™t need to install additional
dependencies (besides the automatically-installed core snap that provides the
basic operating system layer), and it will simply work on every Linux
distribution that supports snaps.

Here, we show ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/11/16/snapping-qt-apps/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/), [Timo
Jyrinki](/en/blog/authors/timo-jyrinki/)

Nov. 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/) [snap](/en/blog/tags/snap/)
[snapcraft](/en/blog/tags/snapcraft/) [ubuntu-sdk](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-sdk/)

#  [PageHeader tutorial](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

## The new header property

This is a tutorial on how to use the new _PageHeader_ component. So far, we
had one header per application, implemented in the _MainView_, and
configurable for each page using the_ Page.head_ property (which is an
instance of _PageHeadConfiguration_). We deprecated that approach, and added
the _[_Page.header_](https://developer.ubuntu.com/api/apps/qml/sdk-15.04.1/Ubu
ntu.Components.Page/)_ property, which ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

Feb. 24, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Adaptive page layouts made easy](/en/blog/2015/08/10/adaptive-page-
layouts/)

[ ![Adaptive page layouts made easy](/static/devportal_uploaded/5f519c74-5718-
474e-9196-eea21644bd4a-uploads/zinnia/100gu-right.png)
](/en/blog/2015/08/10/adaptive-page-layouts/)

## Convergent applications

We want to make it easy for app developers to write an app that can run on
different form factors without changes in the code. This implies that an app
should support screens of various sizes, and the layout of the app should be
optimal for each screen size. For example, a messaging ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/08/10/adaptive-page-layouts/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

Aug. 10, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Return of the Ubuntu UI Toolkit](/en/blog/2015/03/30/ubuntu-
components-1-2-release/)

Next month will be the release of Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) for desktop, and
this version of Ubuntu will soon become the version that will be installed on
Ubuntu phones as well. With the release of 15.04, we also release a new
version of our UI toolkit: _Ubuntu.Components 1.2_. Below are ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/03/30/ubuntu-components-1-2-release/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

March 30, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)





