





#  [Celebrate Ubuntu - Beijing Hackathon](/en/blog/2015/07/14/celebrate-ubuntu-beijing-hackathon-sum/)

![Ubuntu设计-ol-01.jpg](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_ZZ0piCQbas7eFCQHDeHUCTDTXUjpf-MuTnsnMWCUeORzrE6M5nJHG7iJ1ChHz0kGK2bDaVIaHczp0kELbNsiRrDxiROPU6A_dbiocCn6dZQdbO-RyWsXDAWS7iNbRD_vvit2tI)

To celebrate the Developer Edition Ubuntu phone launch in China, Canonical
organized a “celebrate Ubuntu” hackathon for phone in Beijing. It is also
hosted as part of the on-going [_China Mobile & Ubuntu Developer Innovation Contest_](http://dream.10086.cn/yecp/match?action=ubuntu&f=ubuntupr&hmsr=ubuntupr), all projects that were coded during the hackathon can be submitted into
the contest afterwards. This 30+ hour hackathon was packed with creativity,
excitement and laughter, it was exhausting but amazingly fun.

With the help of media partners ([_TechCrunch CN_](http://techcrunch.cn/),
[_Tech Noda_](http://technode.com/)), local tech partners & communities
([_GitCafe_](https://gitcafe.com/), [_MSOpenTech_](https://cn.msopentech.com/), [_UbuntuKylin_](http://www.ubuntukylin.com/),
[_Kaiyuanshe_](http://www.kaiyuanshe.org/),
[_SegmentFault_](http://segmentfault.com/), [_CSDN_](http://www.csdn.net/),
[_linuxCN_](https://linux.cn/), [_OSCN_](http://www.oschina.net/),
[_Linuxeden_](http://www.linuxeden.com/), [_QTCN_](http://www.qtcn.org/),
[_Linuxtoy.org_](https://linuxtoy.org/)), there are over 120 people signed up
online pre-hackathon, and 70+ people turned up onsite.

![IMG_3094.JPG](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/YnKIM5DaGphnP_Xppjs4yHirtMKrtR36s6ILB74RD0WNMNLU8BvhZbwyYlDLw_nXMMBynziwEtoxpSnbG-VKXoMVWPp6FllJzg0g6FYg76ffCYAXfe1_NpsFSjk43ZSaxlmjsYk)

![IMG_3095.JPG](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/UWdHFiMx3tXW6d1w2nPJ6xY7mP5mltzfs4vIdH0qbim6vXEE-hqg2pc2GEF3ji500qQZTK3-O9s6vDyiXJviD_M615q7k6r09uj7-jx3_PzWR7EcNQ58gxSgOZeNJDjCaac1CaI)

Being the first ever Ubuntu phone hackathon in China, it doesn’t have any
fixed topic and project requirement, as long as it will run on an ubuntu phone
in the end. The entire hackathon was driven by pure innovation and creativity.

Ideas and solutions to problems that can benefit or provide entertainment for
phone users is the key for this hackathon. There are 7 different awards to be
given out to credit different types of ideas.

  * Avant-garde Award - for the most innovative ideas and projects

  * Geek Award - for hardcore techy geeky projects

  * Foolproof Award - for most user friendly projects

  * TalkDaTalk Award - for best project demonstration

  * Stunning Award - for best design projects

  * Entertaining Award - for most fun and entertaining projects

  * Special Content Award - for certain most needed content providing categories

And every team who stood up and provided a project demo received a final demo
prize.

Final judging panels were made up by teams from Canonical and China Mobile
device company. Each project are being reviewed by its creativity, usability,
problem solving level, technical difficulty, design and the completion level.
30 hour straight hackathon is an intense exercise, there were 14 teams in the
end proved their talent and effort through their live demo sessions. Four
Meizu MX4 phone were given out for the top 4 teams, and all final teams
received a Qt Core Tutorial book and numerous small gifts.

![DSC_3439.JPG](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/W14Rc5kM_xesfN4MwBfNNszJxBrbTQx20kzg5YSaAXcpjX5HGo8J_w4V-pSurBwPfL0pKQbEAUP0QQZE7GFiBb6eW565_sBh5-zWtpUi37VM4LypVyofmNiWrEmDcvavUtcGmBc)

![DSC_3443.JPG](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/4dUaRoRJOpc4HdLTtt9eZyeDjSHscZa1BvJcje4j3QFndcVM2SdjJGFXVuZUKHnpz_i1HdUM_J5YgpDMC2pxx3aJRPTLgw0iyaZVCKG7RGZhwjYH-fAhIPJRlW3uNiOAQjmpI_8)

![IMG_3091.JPG](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/tet55_MWASolfRsBVSosuiy5e5oWwz7k4FsWxcYN3XXJTwNmcZgh1Fi_ytG1c_yzKZxLoUImxb6D0oeAWcoKrzWLkCfjvfp38W9KIwKr7ooI8qNI6KlVQNdWs759sJlZUHTFltc)

A live weibo tweets & hackathon countdown wall, that was put together by
[_@penk_](https://twitter.com/penk) , provided a great live interactive
platform for onsite participants and online fans and community members.

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/XJXQd0o9bwiRfVEdAWIMm-i_ss8RP8hlqJb0D53REtg8wPQrL7kYV8WPWmjxQMUUSbBGAHTd3_4vHIwer12TJRA-yG901MwAV4gsNPtFYEYZsbsN-aKTPH8W8yX6gs1DRnwrs0M)

The 30+ hour hackathon was fueled with energy, determination and of course
food, water, cans of redbull & sweets! :) Here is a few clips on how the
energy and creativity was flowing throughout the event.

![IMG_3783.JPG](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/hIu48tEzlBTKbFmCga41YvkERNKUrq_CgXTMjhWPV0FcynEsi9ZOWXcdTOWjnSv4NW_1VdsdQrB0JrxWUqzS9Ki_MWSAz0WLkeZtmHcgU2Xlf7Q6D1Xj06h9g9dj37oOYxxszyg)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/zuYWzVeG-jbp0e4id-AtqC6xA--IblsNivGVMQBcIA_jss58MQGlFSCB9v9iKYacF6U2CTf-0lxUFFPnOWC3uJNIW0Dk43kDaqRaS--sHM8TnHtIdZ2j9z4TRKy8Ug4gwJHSJkc)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/5Jaf3NFUenvyIekFxO1fagEqpCvCZJgH56xLZoEM9dD3Ht2uhXB2YzHDLUAMa74xyEdejjP7QmTK5lOwEaCm6YkhqErhZHkWyksTLsCG4ZwurcC_RyfSG49Rt9fDj2ZUbJ2qM78)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/gHpfmVjEfLtzA1sjoLvoobGfmCKuvisubSyP-kjGtjfuVxGFZZRW3UB961vmrnvkcbvVKnxfbqBUX2KHoH9UAAWqrMa3yEbhNixXBlfEFAjWotzWZ6393g4L8xuidSGnRoEbZKM)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/2guqEWi1bD-ECvkoyvOeaXVjcxlaBRwUsWLXB6jDfUzMHxVOLJ_9egdcW-aXNWV-FqqBokqfwgBisnBChaEKA1QF05zibiDBF1yUzlQP9ktzqe3wA2Da9Dk41pGAMkpMK3tgbaA)

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/3GDSwyRnc6KUjSGkXReD4qcf9pigOuXPJ_g-7f56J0csA3TfOmnEKpumfJ776dE7WfOAro5Ce46WhTgb9Z4BW9I6lGBH_8VdKVtN8AH4WMK7nfR4qkiT1GZXeM-uZ7k0KO23nO0)

Some of the teams were fresh learners, spent the first day learning and second
day coding. However, some of them in the end were part of the final winners
too!

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/KFcLYF1-t1sLoUWec57wuPsNZyNYThvIlPwA5n432evU40im0VMXdDbbq7cbTlWIwbqkwCd6p1OrRoo5Dvc6GxT7m2qSTJ_l2DshWioLTzXZIO0M-gEa04wWiN_XqDVbC5nUPn8)

Then of course, all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. Various gaming
sessions and polaroid fun took place naturally to keep things alive and
exciting!

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/BGUZa714E0BYeOpRFYd26ThgZVVjsYlqpLqYNxUVJR293oBIN_n2QNN46wNi8IRD2MiNHDa_-dUY17cB3WRzQBulS22-MiciRFfR_P3_fqABIUgkSfowV1Lsdd2Ec9H02A5B3Wg)

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/BOp1NqTdiqIhsZyYbX1Ub6ORTTPJpRkKhnFqwzHx859g8Zm2GR9L44tKhKiPR98Zi9djr4gEbI7XjHOciQqA_Y_wkO8gEqFzjk3wK22bgy8Lp9butDZ_EBWli6M8Mtb__BMR3-U) ![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/dV-TZ8ORTyOPqsySTzEaf-hOcg9N1G4Uo2v1FerKLFcBRYoXqeM4gWAxGRoO2WABUenCa613a9WnuYfHAB9kcjVhFLXCS68Yp314dh1MCdIdFm6_l7cZ-NG1BSEyzATQsAT9LdE)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/xbhBvFwBcQmBJRkH3LMS0RKVrpnQDf0557UoJg6_0mnVmVJ0RNQq066_a5mCq1WY7cbciiI_3IaHYJgYtXNasoo2hxX4rX6I3DPVK9Pwhh49uEWdUFxQSjGy_7uKjXDEOWieomk)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/kMTl97rz_Gf2QTSLtb7Xn96AmnfTiQKNr9rq6AhMTbFmWueAaCHULXfcaYCesIzuchThwnPZaBFUDHHklTvkY8Z6gPThM7GNv1Pyi1PgSgIKxuSfpwA9gHA5BlR0wMcaqwuF99g)

Now let’s take a look at some of the finalists and their amazing work after
the 30 hour hackathon.

**Douban FM **

A great qml app with neat design and smooth user login experience, which also
enables multi device sync up under your own account. Coded by the one man(the
guy on the right hand side of the picture) team
[_@DawnDIYSoft_](https://twitter.com/dawndiysoft), who is also the man behind
the current youku scope in the Ubuntu store

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/2bp7KbFCJVt7ZthtXd6oHty0OUV-Zd8devsmevBDYYvs09_BtBjnIYow_cuEZGafDjyHmiYPf2pueAitYGCAaCjHEtm2Fc4pgXxhcAJmnCGsPC8CmInQ2tj083kMw_MoJQS6TYQ)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/RUCnseeI6IQNoX50cpbvTrRwhpkZL8vn_MJOGDDkSQG5sYVWpuv4bFKlTUT2LskRzwOnEVpmepmfs9jjy-SH3a3qEUL3H-3Ezfi4pDxapGuxs3E36bgvaLLFBLCxic7b3RNn4bk)![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/ncByVCXqIN5DCyAIf4zZuKFaq40akMvkbrpEoXGB_yqsTxKLpQzsBuUXMog-Zt6pERrv-rbK_8Sx36sh3VBenotG9bzHtMcSUIQx_HCqSe2iDDbX297RKT35w4sWm2itQ95mzf0)![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/9X2GZLnLc7-9mtcbn8_YsNpokFxaU-uUhGaarNvGDlqdcsCddK_3wgQkhH4vsMZihc2Fcfh7Pn1Jb2dhpA05r-yt2PvV1qoao6Urb5UiMzlfbR0xvLuU6dyEPDN9JBK7Yr1fDk0)

**Loli**

A brand new programming language, which was re-implemented with an interpreter
built with JavaScript and ported to Ubuntu phone. Their project can be found
here on
[_github_](https://github.com/Z-Shang/LoLi/blob/master/doc/LanguageDesign). As
you have probably guessed by now, they are of course the winner of the Geek
Award, which was presented by Caobin, Project Manager from the China Mobile
Device Company.

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/UTuaU_zKfjkHvFJPz4-DB67IDuHVAJ-41xD6yejIM1kFc4j_Xs9LR1wf-8HrnHB1HjsfChsGcMZgza9_B7hJ56q1xy4Wz0HXFISqWsv6xh7pGGyzhXr0tbcZyaoAqkht2wdnKaM)

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/6rNQXh1TTfwughkFwdVo6wU94oQjMc5uy_Ik-A5HicWRO0fElHeO-NGRh8mvsLjrJ3ZYQNX_14vz2SLyiDWLDF6mYARdgkzuYiPgVDPqWXEuBXNwnvPp_kGWmZ-cL-jpIzIDWu0)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/J9VUXnhvMHsgzeabRU1LMDJDkjn9pnLmiNDQPvofT2XpwAV8I0LgP-iaHgDw7NEfukFG2GmbfSUmp2-DDqmLYdnnH3sDUikwRyxSJilrDLVUGqBtxJBsH7v6Anoi2UGGhVbsPcE)

**Memory Dictionary**  
Utilizing fragmented time slots in your life, such as when you are travelling
on a metro train, to memorizing new words and phrases (English language
learning app). The app was already built for MacOS, iOS and Android, and is
very popular on those platforms. During the hackathon, the team ported it to
Ubuntu phone based on cordova.

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/Jkg6mlXqZdztiK1VPKwXHLtM9OntGNYSJKFu2_88whu-Zj8DaHjdGSeZSVHYFt2Q1dx_ZM25vW3Mejt0_RyPuw9lCyEAXsyfEB2ujiDJOT_BKiPyT4bXRhF84hVjCYc5ENRl2I0)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/XqlCB0rsCFAkNdv9jqXhIU6UKYyASNgRQz2IXynUH2H6OJmlOnq0od03k3C-K6jclzeb0NqwHRXY5bSq18CclP7nhMt_u3CxS_9SVcxsCH8m4Lvh1urxP79JTs9BQDAGD5tk3OE)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-3fnDCWGg_CwpiaAbgJtr1xfXBCsFGGBz4cEGyq4MyDrqsxpVQpfnQrTa18O81sQd6bqGoE2868CmfqURAdUfKaCejxj3QmDzGZctU69x43UZnyDlS_8JU6rzm65zcSInjWPQmY)

**Couple Like:**

An html5 app that compares two person’s pictures to provide a conclusion on
what type of couple the two will make. It’s light hearted, fun and packed with
love, coded by a team of couple who were on the dance floor not long before
the demo. Also one of the project that runs smoothly on the phone by the end
of the hackathon.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/rY3E4o8WUmU-dSrc9PLmydwNpjmds1VACFhXpHQHYFs4DMsIyyyCeNIg7mtaj1t-MJ41Iv1ANuxUkEzWBR51MWg6j2wKBnqQO8epzBIslMt8pF7LLXhJhC4vLRSQmVsRb2EslmU)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-ASPYa5jE8WlNlGsqHfByKbtxVhay0OEmtVNStLNtS7JDDcrSjxNeERHdaiqwJ5GRFGywTdVNaQ1qt9M1gulHt9hWvmKvW5gWWomtPKJ3rrbWStgftlSxG-wzbc9yYzypDZLkg4)![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/5R6dNJmxsq_bTqZzbo-ebWZvd8EnS4UQ2QLe7tSX5LupoDILmCmy2zYEhVXfsMRpHFUOZswBoSoAvAz2ccSLxPz3qCAAhDWGme6EpWFI9BPokR8WwMan1ocIwY5QMSPFgRqG1hI)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/Sh6YRcuzD0z0ne2YXDcab1TVQdoplD5dTzTtjT0LHuXRj3Rjv0pIwKyYUXg2giD_vvvlWTkVVwsWsyuWzV6hxnkGyc0tVespOUSjbNEw3bJTX46wcuG6NNkT5BUudF5X_KmdP4g)

**Dou Dizhu (poker game)**

A single poker game with it's own memory management system and AI. It was
implemented in qt widget, so still need some work to port it to Ubuntu phone.
But through the desktop demo, it already looking addictive and entertaining.

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/UyYoA1htvMBNDOHhADdhX2UPhNtTg4caK9JSaeZ6Vqafg9fh7v9N0eWIoXlw3LuCjV-ZP9rMsz8VkyhIk7oSU4V9iYwN3gkM9L3S5eGcYtMisGrPBlqqf4KSKzQ9Z_-J4mWJRmE)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/gQ52ttEssStuPWt_HfAUR407cptjV3-YuFGw_RL0uyXIRLcwV5rgC4cjeZQR-sfGFByMXsvhJJJOJfiWi9s0dRPKInVITovCslapzukLM2hG_Jjqji3NVA4MrMS711yNPy60czw)

**Utu / uPhoto**

It’s an app implemented with C++ for image/photo processing, still a WIP
project, but exciting enough for us to know that soon we can beautifying our
snapshots on our Ubuntu phone.

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/NqrANugGTj5wuLQ2yWur-UPPCtwlZghKH7mPwwPXDwLFkTLH1kJvF9WiGSVV-6wvDKft5T3ynywgYtGbYQgSYJht6K7SqwTeRmP6VGuT2u0UmwaLMi996z0VJ7P1FdLC83GKBFY)

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/dreEOZFp3vOuD7yg7Kb156G8_-EajcOIv8miqm9TE-f5SlwGywE_XqqB7m5AtAfAcTXkmJGI_cTUFF38vTI3QjFrxVe8X0UzIWxafP-JOCla77FDZtAH-L5tAu5wZm4gbTpN1dM)

**uChat/(Ubuntu Chat)**

A dating messaging service application dedicated for anyone who finds it
difficult to make the first move or the right move when it comes to meeting
someone. It involves server side and client side technology, despite their
initial plan of using html5 based on webapp or cordova, the prototype in the
end was built with qml by a team of university students in their second and
third year.

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/3Q8kMle7nFMONj2NKOF-DXy6K3Vd2fYkWbWA3p1rk18sCPMbKOfsk648hEuu2-MxPUusjscVMlH9RuasftfsCzysITblAPIg3UvgtnuCDYzAf-S_s1_n0N8tMxD6pYimZYPvQa8)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/SVJQyszJQRSqT-YKfcPvge-TI79qaKgOt8Wlu8BkYPzq8G6MExT3yJ1xn40KfI4Thr1zzstMxvdW8kGg0SfB_yYRL-aPc6Crus_89NgclHLyV7DnO43eFRcpqJhkjVPWm_JLjcY)

A few more clips of the hackathon and of course a happy group shot.

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/DtbSffY7ggGErCc78P1qQQVTZmWJ_DmEpmI3iT8RUt_e-xM6KKf0GOeH_WOTUYmoEzoJSicgAzpNazBF34uyBDBR1r-dBdTtGl5TnC6nRAK-eMWIb_hLXwtPG5qumYoUDBbox3M)

![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/NSnT51JaGfwSRbX44DfhFxtiay7ti7mNwBEDUSnp3jeZIFQIHgFgLHt9He72Z_Ota5wrAg14KkePBVjjR0UHr6N8Q9qqovHQiXuwzk_yOD0UomrKOKdG6sw-PYd4GYqcXLgo7cI)

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/IpSHfKCcTAqcWQ43wUAGQy2FakqlmGP19JG6_gzsyAGwmQFP6bZVG3s9u4Ho0Ub0R3zeEFRHtD4hHeUzGJ8Al2-Mol0VVrbuoIBp_DyWcgyXhN3-BL7GVBFvGDQo10eHK7BxDAU)

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/qsfUqpxf-gOqi_8ONiTS_n15skmF5mrwkJB8EsAdptkU5fwdzuaaktdyfyfqRCFpToKB0EgtatdzEMNDT79svEquJroHx0dyUncGFdbQS1FnUk9lxK_nxjJIDEhlDCPMczfYE3A)

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/D_1NQ51N0zKEuCOb01APV1OI6qVi8o3G4vsyPTAO0ora6CM4trabEjF_wV1N5LpZi_8dYYXONQVdZYsQ2iJMN4sDSXCjXBLKThB6SnwgFK-fh--U_ybmw9AT3mz3bSeNlxPSevg)

[April Wang](/en/blog/authors/aprilswang/)

July 14, 2015

Filed under: [beijing hackathon](/en/blog/tags/beijing%20hackathon/)
[hackathon](/en/blog/tags/hackathon/) [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [ubuntu phone](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu%20phone/)





## Comments

No comments yet.

## Add your comment

Name:

Email address:

URL:

Comment:

If you enter anything in this field your comment will be treated as spam:





