





# Tag archives: scopes





#  [Ubuntu Scopes Showdown: Here are the winners!](/en/blog/2016/04/13/ubuntu-scopes-showdown-here-are-winners/)

![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf-9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-Banner_WEB.png)

After a month of deliberations, it's time to announce the Scopes Showdown 2016
winners!

It's been a blast to see the interaction this contest has generated between
scopes developers and the scopes API team, many bugs have been fixed,
contributions have been accepted and many suggestions have been considered for
inclusion and are now on ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/04/13/ubuntu-scopes-showdown-here-are-winners/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

April 13, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)

#  [Last weekend for the Scopes Showdown!](/en/blog/2016/02/25/last-week-end-scopes-showdown/)

[![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf-9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-Banner_WEB.png)](https://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown)

Almost six weeks since the start of the
[Showdown](https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/showdown/) and we have been overly
impressed by the number of questions we have received and hope we have been
able to provide the right support for you to complete your entry.

**Here is a kind reminder that the deadline to [submit your entry](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1tf7sPJEpBLxQsmpfUWGpwl3izYyxU6oeluZlfGOO3Ng/viewform) is monday February ...**

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/25/last-week-end-scopes-showdown/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

Feb. 25, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)

#  [Announcing the Ubuntu Scopes Showdown2016!](/en/blog/2016/01/15/announcing-ubuntu-scopes-showdown-2016/)

[![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf-9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-Banner_WEB.png)](https://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown)

Today we announce the launch of our second Ubuntu Scopes Showdown! We are
excited to bring you yet another engaging developer competition, where the
Ubuntu app developer community brings innovative and interesting new
experiences for Ubuntu on mobile devices.

Scopes in Javascript and Go were introduced recently and are the hot topic of
this competition ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/01/15/announcing-ubuntu-scopes-showdown-2016/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

Jan. 15, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)

#  [Cleaning up scopes settings](/en/blog/2015/06/11/cleaning-scopes-settings/)

The scopes architecture on Unity 7, which provides the Ubuntu shell and
default UX experience on current desktops, and Unity 8, which powers the phone
and soon the convergent desktop, differ to a large degree when it comes to
visibility of data sources. Future Unity 8 builds will be obsoleting the
legacy privacy flag in ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/06/11/cleaning-scopes-settings/)

[Pawel Stolowski](/en/blog/authors/stolowski/)

June 11, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[privacy](/en/blog/tags/privacy/) [scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/)

#  [Announcing the Scope Showdown winners](/en/blog/2015/01/16/announcing-scopes-showdown-winners/)

We're thrilled to announce the results of the **Ubuntu Scope Showdown**: a
contest to develop a [scope](http://developer.ubuntu.com/scopes) in 6 weeks
and win exciting prizes. Fleshing out Ubuntu's innovative take at the content
and services experience, participants had the opportunity to use the new
development tools to create a complete scope from scratch and publish it ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2015/01/16/announcing-scopes-showdown-winners/)

[David Planella](/en/blog/authors/dpm/)

Jan. 16, 2015

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/)





