





# Tag archives: planet-ubuntu





#  [New PageHeader.subtitle with framework 15.04.5 in
OTA-11](/en/blog/2016/05/10/new-pageheadersubtitle-framework-15045-ota-11/)

With OTA-11 on the horizon, rc-proposed now has a new framework. If you want
to use the latest UI Toolkit API, that is part of Ubuntu.Components 1.3, you
should bump your framework to 15.04.5 - in QtCreator you can find your
manifest.json.in under Other Files and simply select the new ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/05/10/new-pageheadersubtitle-
framework-15045-ota-11/)

[Christian Dywan](/en/blog/authors/kalikiana/)

May 10, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [The squirrel has landed!](/en/blog/2016/04/21/the-squirrel-has-landed/)

Today, we are proud to bring you our 6th Long Term Support release: **Ubuntu
16.04 LTS**. It is the sum of the work of thousands of people collaborating
all over the world, working tirelessly for the last six months and we'd like
to share a few highlights.

![Ubuntu 16.04 LTS is here!](http://i.imgur.com/R47hOnz.png)

## Software distribution

You have probably already heard ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/04/21/the-squirrel-has-landed/)

[Community Team](/en/blog/authors/Community-Team/)

April 21, 2016

Filed under: [Ubuntu OS](/en/blog/tags/Ubuntu%20OS/) [planet-
ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)

#  [Ubuntu Scopes Showdown: Here are the winners!](/en/blog/2016/04/13/ubuntu-
scopes-showdown-here-are-winners/)

![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf-
9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-
Banner_WEB.png)

After a month of deliberations, it's time to announce the Scopes Showdown 2016
winners!

It's been a blast to see the interaction this contest has generated between
scopes developers and the scopes API team, many bugs have been fixed,
contributions have been accepted and many suggestions have been considered for
inclusion and are now on ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/04/13/ubuntu-scopes-showdown-here-are-
winners/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

April 13, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)

#  [Ride With Us: The Road To UI Toolkit 2.0](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-
road-ui-toolkit-20/)

In 2012 we started the Ubuntu UI Toolkit development with QML-only components,
all logic being provided in Javascript. This allowed us to deploy components
quickly, to do fast prototyping, and tweak the behaviors and look-and-feel on
the fly without the need to re-package or rebuild the entire toolkit. With all
its benefits, this approach revealed ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/23/ride-us-road-ui-toolkit-20/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

March 23, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [5 minutes to file in IoT Developer Survey
2016!](/en/blog/2016/03/17/5-minutes-file-iot-developer-survey-2016/)

A quick note reminding you to submit your feedback to the [IoT Developer
Survey 2016](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/AGILEIoT)!

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/8f149a1e-d82e-414e-872d-fe622bf55b52-3078ae78-e
d49-442d-9ac4-8228c968aeaf-media/2016/03/17/survey.jpg)

The survey is organized by the Eclipse IoT Working Group, IEEE IoT Initiative
and the AGILE-IoT H2020 Research Project. Your input will help in
understanding the IoT community requirements on software and related tools and
to develop resources to more effectively ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/17/5-minutes-file-iot-developer-
survey-2016/)

[Didier Roche](/en/blog/authors/didrocks/)

March 17, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/) [ubuntu-
core](/en/blog/tags/ubuntu-core/)

#  [SDK Planning for 16.10](/en/blog/2016/03/16/planning-the-sdk-16-10/)

# **On your mark!**

We have a clear commitment for the upcoming cycle: We will make it faster! One
might ask what exactly we want to make faster and how much faster? From the
point of SDK the most important place for performance improvements are the
applications and all the consumers of the UI Toolkit. So ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/03/16/planning-the-sdk-16-10/)

[Zoltán Balogh](/en/blog/authors/bzoltan/)

March 16, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Last weekend for the Scopes Showdown!](/en/blog/2016/02/25/last-week-end-
scopes-showdown/)

[![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf
-9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-
Banner_WEB.png)](https://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown)

Almost six weeks since the start of the
[Showdown](https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/showdown/) and we have been overly
impressed by the number of questions we have received and hope we have been
able to provide the right support for you to complete your entry.

**Here is a kind reminder that the deadline to [submit your entry](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1tf7sPJEpBLxQsmpfUWGpwl3izYyxU6oeluZlfGOO3Ng/viewform) is monday February ...**

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/25/last-week-end-scopes-showdown/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

Feb. 25, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)

#  [PageHeader tutorial](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

## The new header property

This is a tutorial on how to use the new _PageHeader_ component. So far, we
had one header per application, implemented in the _MainView_, and
configurable for each page using the_ Page.head_ property (which is an
instance of _PageHeadConfiguration_). We deprecated that approach, and added
the _[_Page.header_](https://developer.ubuntu.com/api/apps/qml/sdk-15.04.1/Ubu
ntu.Components.Page/)_ property, which ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/24/pageheader-tutorial/)

[Tim Peeters](/en/blog/authors/tpeeters/)

Feb. 24, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [UI Toolkit for OTA9](/en/blog/2016/02/01/ui-toolkit-ota9/)

Hello folks, it’s been a while since the last update came from our busy
toolkit ants. As OTA9 came out recently, it is the time for a refreshment from
our side to show you the latest and greatest cocktail of features our barmen
have prepared. Beside the bugfixes we’ve provided, here is a list of ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/02/01/ui-toolkit-ota9/)

[Zsombor Egri](/en/blog/authors/zsombi/)

Feb. 1, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[sdk](/en/blog/tags/sdk/)

#  [Announcing the Ubuntu Scopes Showdown
2016!](/en/blog/2016/01/15/announcing-ubuntu-scopes-showdown-2016/)

[![](https://developer.ubuntu.com/static/devportal_uploaded/14310d36-254f-4adf
-9dfc-6b1ee1a15d4a-cms_page_media/1061/Adhoc_Ubuntu-Scope-Showdown-
Banner_WEB.png)](https://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown)

Today we announce the launch of our second Ubuntu Scopes Showdown! We are
excited to bring you yet another engaging developer competition, where the
Ubuntu app developer community brings innovative and interesting new
experiences for Ubuntu on mobile devices.

Scopes in Javascript and Go were introduced recently and are the hot topic of
this competition ...

[Continue reading](/en/blog/2016/01/15/announcing-ubuntu-scopes-
showdown-2016/)

[David Callé](/en/blog/authors/davidc3/)

Jan. 15, 2016

Filed under: [planet-ubuntu](/en/blog/tags/planet-ubuntu/)
[scopes](/en/blog/tags/scopes/) [showdown](/en/blog/tags/showdown/)








