





## Design tips for your app icon

Creating an icon which is recognisable, differentiates from other icons and
still looks good at different sizes can be a bit of a challenge, so here are a
few tips for you.

For an in-depth look at our design principles and how they are applied to
iconography throughout Ubuntu, head over to the [icon
guidelines](https://design.ubuntu.com/apps/style/iconography) section on the
design website.

Community designer Samuel Hewitt has created a guide to help you through the
process of [designing your own Ubuntu icon](http://samuelhewitt.com/ubuntu-
icons/design-your-own-guide).

### Descriptive design

The icon you choose for your app should describe what your app is about, what
it does, or what service it is there for in a recognisable way. Some ideas
which might work for you:

  * an altered version of the logo of the service you are using (you might have to check trademark policies first),
  * a real-life object your app is connected to (a book with bookmarks for a 'bookmark manager', a fridge for a shopping list app, etc.),
  * your own logo, if it's distinctive and easy to spot,
  * the name of your app - bear in mind though, that letters get hard to read on small sizes of the icon

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/3aef52ba-cdf0-444d-a8da-
ba8c627b0d3d-cms_page_media/283/clock-app.png)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/f2bdf249-e712-426a-9c7b-322875c6477a-cms_page_m
edia/283/notes-app.png)

### Distinctive shapes

Depending on the object you choose to show in the icon, on the perspective,
lighting and other factors, it might be hard to recognise what you are trying
to depict. A TV might look like a box, or a computer screen, a remote control
like a phone, etc. When deciding on the design, you could try a very quick
sketch and look at it from some distance or show it to friends to see how well
it is understood.

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/28fdc4b9-d106-487c-b7ce-20c89888ac2e-cms_page_m
edia/283/weather-app.png)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/efb179ca-b3bd-456b-9233-1a6173455d3b-cms_page_m
edia/283/messaging-app.png)

### Details

A detailed icon is very nice too look at as it shows quality and your eye for
the small things, it might add confusion though, especially in smaller sizes
or for people who have impaired eyesight. Show what's necessary, pay attention
to detail, but don't overload the icon.

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/a213bcc5-c3a4-4f57-bb16-7d1ab60f7a74-cms_page_m
edia/283/rssreader-app.png)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/15273e1e-fc3b-4b68-bc2e-3003592ef956-cms_page_m
edia/283/address-book-app.png)

### Icon sizes

To show off your app well, you will want to ship various sizes of the icon, so
they can be used in various settings and places. Sometimes it might be
necessary to not just scale down the images, but also remove a few details
before sizing down as your icons can very quickly look pixelated which will
just confuse your users. **The software store will require a 256x256px sized
icon.**

### Colours

Use distinctive colours, make your icon stand out a bit and give the shapes
enough contrast to be visible.

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/53ef866c-ddb7-47d5-b634-d676cf5e47fb-
cms_page_media/283/calendar-app.png)

![](/static/devportal_uploaded/6064bdce-01bd-4e16-bd83-69b1d5ce68f7-cms_page_m
edia/283/calculator-app.png)

## Software

Ubuntu has [a lot of great software for
graphics](https://apps.ubuntu.com/cat/department/graphics/), and some of them
have great tutorials available. Check out tutorials for [the
GIMP](http://www.gimp.org/tutorials/) and
[Inkscape](http://inkscape.org/doc/basic/tutorial-basic.html).





