





## Need help?

You can find support from a variety of sources. Take a look – you’re likely to
find an answer to every question. If you can’t find an answer, just ask the
people in our mailing list or IRC channel.

### [Ask a question on Ask
Ubuntu](http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/ubuntu-core)

If you’re stuck on a problem, someone else has probably encountered it too and
they can help you. Take a look at the ["ubuntu-core"
tag](http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/ubuntu-core) on Ask Ubuntu or [ask
a question](http://askubuntu.com/questions/ask?tags=ubuntu-core).

### [Join our real time chat](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=snappy)

Share your projects and ask other developers for support. This high-bandwith
IRC channel is a good place when you are looking [for a quick
answer](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=snappy) to a single question.

### [For app developers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/ask?tags=snapcraft)

Reach out to other snap developers by using the ["snapcraft" tag on Ask
Ubuntu](http://askubuntu.com/questions/ask?tags=snapcraft), join the
[snapcraft mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/snapcraft)
and make sure to join the [Ubuntu App Developers Google+
community](https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/111350780270925540549).

### [Snappy Ubuntu Core Clinics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-
qBHd6_LXWYm8qttcXaosAIzejTa5IPj)

Our Snappy Ubuntu Core Clinics are video sessions where we want to inform you
about what's new, show some demos, answer questions and where you can bring a
problem and we are going to look at it together. Watch the [sessions which
already happened](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-
qBHd6_LXWYm8qttcXaosAIzejTa5IPj) and check out which [new ones are
planned](http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar).





## Further reading

Further documentation can be found here:

  * [More background information on security features of Ubuntu](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/vivid/man5/apparmor.d.5.html).
  * [The snappy confinement specification](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Specifications/SnappyConfinement).
  * [An overview of Ubuntu’s security features](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/Features).

## Filing bugs

The Ubuntu community use Launchpad to track bugs and host our code, so if you
think you have encountered a bug, please file it in Launchpad. We value your
feedback.

  * Sometimes a policy denial is a result of a bug in the template policy (ubuntu-core-security): [List of open bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-core-security/+bugs), [file a new bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-core-security/+filebug).
  * Snapcraft: [List of open bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/snapcraft/+bugs), [file a new bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/snapcraft/+filebug).
  * Snappy itself: [List of open bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/snappy/+bugs), [file a new bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/snappy/+filebug)[file a new bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/snappy/+filebug)a new bug.
  * Our developer site (developer.ubuntu.com): [List of open bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/developer-ubuntu-com/+bugs), [file a new bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/developer-ubuntu-com/+filebug).

![](https://assets.ubuntu.com/sites/ubuntu/latest/u/img/pictograms/picto-
pack/picto-articles-midaubergine.png)





