





# Gadget snaps

Your [gadget snap](/en/snappy/guides/oem/) defines how your hardware interacts
with your Ubuntu Core device, it can

  * declare hardware capabilities to the system
  * pre-allow access to snaps that need to use this hardware

### Here is a list of currently supported devices:

#### Available on release: 16

![](http://i.imgur.com/QResuZh.jpg)

### Bubblegum-96

Gadget snap for booting a Bubblegum-96. Documentation available [here](https:/
/github.com/96boards/documentation/blob/master/ConsumerEdition/Bubblegum-96/Do
wnloads/Ubuntu-Core.md).

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/01/gg)

### Roseapple-Pi

Gadget snap for booting a Roseapple Pi.

![](http://i.imgur.com/nUmfmvi.png)

### Lemaker-Guitar-Gadget

support files for booting the Lemaker Guitar board, and you can find the
images for the boards at [http://forum.lemaker.org/forum.php?mod=viewthread&ti
d=23352](http://forum.lemaker.org/forum.php?mod=viewthread&tid=23352&extra=pag
e%3D1).

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/05/96Boards-
FinalLogo_96Boards-Logo-Standard.png)

### Hikey-Snappy-Gadget

Support files for booting the HiKey board (LeMaker version). You can find the
images for this board at [http://www.lemaker.org/product-hikey-
download-54.html](http://www.lemaker.org/product-hikey-download-54.html).

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/02/icon_4.png
)

### Canonical-I386 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

This package contains a simple gadget snap for i386 systems

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/01/element14_
logo2_GPubnIn_1.png)

### Beagleblack

This package is used to setup a Beagle Bone Black

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/12/logo-
ubuntu_cof-orange-hex_6.png)

### Canonical-Pi2 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

Support files for booting Raspberry Pi 2

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/12/ubuntu.png
)

### Canonical-Pc ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

This package contains a simple OEM snappy package for system configuration

#### Available on release: 15.04-core

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/03/mediatek.p
ng)

### Mt7623

MT7623 OEM snap for IoT demo purpose

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/01/gg)

### Roseapple-Pi

Roseapple Pi OEM snap

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/07/logo-
odroid-256x256.png)

### Odroidc

Support files for booting ODROIDC. The ODROIDC requires a custom Kernel to
boot. Build the device part with [https://github.com/longsleep/snappy-
odroidc](https://github.com/longsleep/snappy-odroidc)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/ubuntu.png
)

### Generic i386 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

This package contains a simple OEM snappy package for system configuration

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/beagle.png
)

### Beagle

This package sets up some defaults, branding, and takes care of installing
bootloaders. See
[https://github.com/gumstix/snappy](https://github.com/gumstix/snappy)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/gumstix_om
pSBSG.png)

### Duovero

This package sets up some defaults, branding, and takes care of installing
bootloaders. See
[https://github.com/gumstix/snappy](https://github.com/gumstix/snappy)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/gumstix_Ze
A4uYX.png)

### Pepper

This package sets up some defaults, branding, and takes care of installing
bootloaders. See
[https://github.com/gumstix/snappy](https://github.com/gumstix/snappy)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/gumstix.pn
g)

### Overo

This package sets up some defaults, branding, and takes care of installing
bootloaders. See
[https://github.com/gumstix/snappy](https://github.com/gumstix/snappy)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/05/panda_ggGV
sZl.png)

### Panda

This package sets up some defaults, branding, and takes care of installing
bootloaders. See
[https://github.com/gumstix/snappy](https://github.com/gumstix/snappy)

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/04/berry.jpg.
png)

### Pi2 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

Support files for booting Raspberry Pi 2

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/04/ubuntu-
logo51_8R0CQPI.png)

### Generic amd64 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

This package contains a simple OEM snappy package for system configuration

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/04/element14_
logo2_GPubnIn.png)

### Beagleblack

This package is used to setup a Beagle Bone Black

#### Available on release: rolling-core

![](http://i.imgur.com/bMmQb14.png)

### Canonical-Pi3

Support files for booting Raspberry Pi 3

![](http://i.imgur.com/aqLYwcq.png)

### Owncloud-Pi2

Support files for booting the ownCloud Pi device.

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/02/icon_4.png
)

### Canonical-I386 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

This package contains a simple gadget snap for i386 systems

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2016/01/element14_
logo2_GPubnIn_1.png)

### Beagleblack

This package is used to setup a Beagle Bone Black

![](https://myapps.developer.ubuntu.com/site_media/appmedia/2015/12/logo-
ubuntu_cof-orange-hex_6.png)

### Canonical-Pi2 ![Officially supported](http://design.ubuntu.com/wp-
content/uploads/pictogram-certification-orange-hex.svg)

Support files for booting Raspberry Pi 2





