





# Ubuntu Core

A new rendition of Ubuntu designed for deployments on embedded and IoT
devices, cloud and more.

Ubuntu Core is a minimal Ubuntu built entirely of snaps, the secure, easy to
update and open Linux packaging format. Ubuntu Core is designed from the
ground up for production environments and optimised for security and ease of
maintenance.

[Try Ubuntu Core](start)

![](http://i.imgur.com/YDg0Uwx.png)





## Ubuntu Core, the all-snap Ubuntu

Ubuntu Core is a tiny, transactional version of Ubuntu for IoT devices and
large container deployments. It runs a new breed of super-secure, remotely
upgradeable Linux app packages known as snaps - and is trusted by leading IoT
players, from chipset vendors to device makers and system integrators.

[More about Ubuntu Core ›](http://ubuntu.com/core)





## Building devices with Ubuntu Core

Ubuntu Core provides a secure and supported platform to quickly build IoT and
embedded devices. The strict separation between kernel & device drivers, OS
and applications means embedded engineers and application developers can
easily work in parallel. Canonical and its partners do support a number of
boards and chipset to build or test your IoT applications from Raspberry Pi to
the Intel Joule.





## Develop snaps on desktop, deploy from server to IoT

Because Ubuntu Core is such a great production environment for its security
and application confinement, we recommend you start your application
development using Ubuntu desktop 16.04 LTS. Snaps can be written and tested on
the desktop before testing on the device. If your main interest is to build
applications for Ubuntu Core devices, visit
[snapcraft.io](http://snapcraft.io) to build snaps for Ubuntu Core devices and
Ubuntu desktops and servers. You can then use the Ubuntu Store to distribute
your snap from servers to desktop and IoT devices.





## Get started with Ubuntu Core

Ubuntu Core is supported on a variety of chipsets, boards, SOCs and virtual
machines, including:

  * Raspberry Pi 2 and 3
  * Qualcomm DragonBoard 410c
  * Intel NUC
  * Intel Joule
  * Samsung Artik
  * KVM

[Get started ›](https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/start)





